I'm joshie joshie this is chalant I grew
up Orthodox Hasidic Jew and this is a
traditional food is this a totally and
utterly burn you survive on this this is
what's kept my people going for
thousands of years hello fellow
Wanderers here's something people ponder
what about the Jewish food that you know
about which one is the oldest is it a
gefilte fish be chicken soup see Chinese
takeout or D cholent cholent dates back
thousands and thousands of years the
time of the temple when there were many
different Jewish factions that felt
differently on how the color should be
interpreted there were the Pharisees
those Jews that believed in the old law
oh you know about oral law and written
law right okay here's the basic
breakdown there's Torah srivatsa which
is the written law and then there's
tarisha ball pen which is the oral law
Orthodox Jews believe in both terrific
sob and torchia belper both the written
law and the oral law this means that we
believe in the rabbi's the sages passing
down from generation to generation the
laws that we Jews as ever evolving in
the culture around us how we can keep
the Torah and obviously for as long as
the Torah has been around there have
been different factions of Jews that
feel differently on how the toner should
be interpreted but just for the sake of
this video let's just understand that
Orthodox Jews believe in both total
Assad and Tasha belt path both the
written law and how the rabbi's
interpreted any let's get back to
chillin chillin basically started off as
the very first way that Jews proclaimed
what they believed in and they did so
with their stomachs which is kind of
cool way of showing how you feel about
things let me explain there are a bunch
of jews called the carrots and the Jews
call the keiretsu
in some form another still exists today
basically don't believe any
interpretation that the rabbi's go ahead
and give you the only believe what's
written in the Torah itself and as a
result there are certain phrases or
certain verses within the Torah that
basically are inexplicable without any
type of rabbinic interpretation so on
this last week's parsha of vehicle
there's last week's Torah portion it
basically mentioned that you should not
Kindle a light in your house on Shabbos
now the cat rights took this literally
and they basically set in dark houses in
a cold food and they didn't even like
Chavez candles because it says you
shouldn't Kindle up right in your house
on Chavez the rabbi's on the other hand
explained that it doesn't mean you can't
have light in your house of course you
can you just can't light it on Shabbos
itself you have to light it before shots
and if you have the light on before
shabbos and it's okay for it to burn
throughout jobs cholent was a way of
protesting against the cat rights they
would have the Chand cooking before
shabbos allow it to cook through shabbos
and the hot sherlyn on Chavez Day itself
it was a way of showing that they
believed in how the rabbi's interpreted
this verse and they can't get any worse
than that but there are a lot of things
within the Orthodox jewelry that we need
the rabbi's interpretation for for
example how to create phylacteries or
its filling how to twist and tie the
knots of Texas and about eighty-five
percent to ninety percent of all the
practices that are recognizable as being
Jewish that we have today all come from
some form of interpretation of the
written law inside of the oral law now
as you go ahead on this upcoming week
and you prepare your shabbos meals
remember that trollin stood out as our
oldest ethnic food related to our
Orthodox jewelry where the Jews decided
to proclaim themselves as those who
believe not only intership us of but
also torch about path not only believing
in the written word that God gave to
moshe rabbeinu but also how our sages
interpret it so that we can live our
everyday lives in the most authentic way
possible
Oh talk about the head then one with a
BF ever you wanna not go straight him
yeah